(birds chirping and cawing)
(bell ringing)
(tambur music begins)
(door creaking)
(gong bangs)
(bell rings)
(foreign language)
(baby crying)
♫ Happy birthday to you
♫ Happy birthday dear Katie
♫ Happy birthday to you ♫
Yay! Woo hoo!
(clapping)
Don't forget to make a wish now!
Alright!
(cheering)
(clapping)
Woo hoo!
Happy birthday, pumpkin head, happy birthday.
(foreign language)
(clattering)
(crying)
(sad dizi music)
(sad piano music)
Have a great day, pumkin head.
Thanks dad, you too.
See you tonight.
(car starts)
He's been putting so much pressure on me.
You love him!
Yeah Katie, looking good.
Yeah, you too teddy bear.
He's disgusting, how could you talk to him like that?
Don't worry,
he won't even remember seeing me this morning.
(bell rings)
(person imitating trumpet)
Buenos dias señors y señoritas!
The student government is in session,
would the council members please take your seats.
Listen I'm gonna ask everybody to do some fundraising
for a national charity called Doctor's Gift.
They provide surgical procedures for people,
mostly children in third world countries.
Living where we do, in the cradle or Malibu,
we can all use a little reality in our lives, agreed?
Go ahead and pass these back,
anything that's left over hand up front, thank you.
And we'll also talk about the prom,
I know that's on the agenda and on your minds,
but you get community service hours for doing this,
and it might actually make you feel good about yourselves.
Why shouldn't we feel good about ourselves?
Britney, I don't know that that's what I meant,
maybe I was a little heavy handed.
I've have a lot of students do this in previous years,
and they've really gotten something out of it.
Mr. Matthews, are these pictures real?
Yeah Katie, they're very real.
I've met some of the children in the photos.
I've gone on the missions the last couple of years,
taken some students,
some people said it changed their lives.
Yeah, they lost their lunch.
(laughter)
Alright I know it's not for everybody,
but it's pretty cool.
Been to some interesting places.
Cancun?
(laughter)
No, we don't go to Cancun like it's spring break,
but we've gone to China, gone to Thailand.
I know other students who've gone to the Philippines,
Russia, Central and South America.
Last year we went to China, we took two students,
we set up surgical facilities,
we performed dozens of operations
to correct facial deformities.
It changed a lot of lives.
I don't expect you to give up your lives,
and I'm not gonna hold it against you if you don't go,
but...
honestly I think it's a pretty great opportunity.
Alright, the prom, the prom.
Everybody have a dress picked out? John?
Just kidding.
(laughter)
Who did we put in charge of committee assignments?
Oh, I am!
Oh good, what were you thinkin'?
Okay I'm thinking like this travel around the world thing,
and everybody can pick like their own different country
that they want to represent and stuff.
What else we got?
I'm thinking like this, uhm, Arabian Nights theme?
And we can have like Jasmine and Aladdin
and have magic carpet rides and everything,
it'd be fun.
Very good, nicely done.
It's time to go.
(glass shattering)
I want you to speak English.
Please don't make me do this daddy!
(crying)
I understand you're scared.
You've done so much for me.
I've done nothing any father wouldn't have done.
All these years I dreamed that...
you will be just like others too.
Please daddy, let me wear my hat?
Don't worry.
Doctors in Shanghai will take good care of us.
(foreign language)
(gate squeaking)
(train horn blows)
(chatter)
(rails squeaking)
Come on, we have to find the bus.
We are already late.
So many people.
(bus horn honking)
(screeching)
(crashing)
Papa!
(crying)
(sad music)
Hey Mr. Matthews!
Katie what's up? What can I do for you?
I was looking through that literature
you passed out in student council today.
Think you're interested in Doctor's Gift?
Is it as sad as it looks?
Overall, I'd say it's pretty rewarding,
but I'd be lying if I said there weren't some sad moments.
In China, this last trip, after we had packed up,
I was coming down the hall and I saw this father
and his teenage daughter.
They had arrived after the doctors and staff
had all gone home.
(sad music)
Where is everyone?
They've all gone.
(laughs)
Are you a doctor?
I'm a teacher, all the doctors have gone home.
He ended up in this horrible accident
where his hand was crushed.
His poor daughter who had waited for years
to have this surgery had to be turned away.
It broke my heart.
What happened to them?
There was a nurse waiting at the bus stop
on her way to the airport,
she bandaged up the father's hand.
What about the girl?
I don't know.
I see wheels turning.
Will you let me know what you decide?
Just think about it little more.
See you.
(truck starts)
Where you been?
I was talking to Mr. Matthews.
What about?
Something bothering you?
Yeah, I've been waiting for 15 minutes.
Just pull over, let me out.
Relax, relax.
Don't tell me to relax.
I hate it when you tell me to relax.
I wait for 15 minutes, and you're pissed at me?
Just pull over, let me out.
(dinging)
(door slams)
Katie, get in.
Katie, you're acting like a little girl,
you gonna walk the whole way home?
Just get in!
You gonna get in?
No, get lost.
("Anthem" by Trevor Hall)
Hey Katie.
What's shakin'?
Don't say anything.
♫ Well I, well I can fly, I can fly so very high
♫ Yes and all of you guys
♫ Everybody's feelin' so ♫
What are you doing?
I don't know which way to go.
I live that way. Take me home.
My pleasure.
I thought I told you to shut up.
♫ Everybody's together with no separation
♫ 'Cause this is our anthem
♫ Oh this is our anthem
♫ This is our anthem
♫ Our anthem, this is our anthem ♫
Want me to get rid of him?
Who?
Chris.
(sighs)
♫ Do do do do do do do do do do do do dum dum ♫
Mhm?
Oh, yeah.
Katie, is that you?
Yeah mom.
Katie?
I'm gonna call you back. Alright.
What's going on ?
Could you wait a minute before you get on the phone?
What?
(doorbell rings)
If that's Chris don't let him in.
What's going on?
Nothing, just don't let him in.
Don't talk to me like that Katie.
(door bell rings)
Mom!
What is going on Chris?
Who are you?
Ted.
Okay.
Is Katie here?
Hi Chris.
Hi Mrs. Nelson.
Tell him to get lost.
Who?
Katie?
Hi teddy bear.
Go home, Chris.
Get off her bed.
Is he gone?
I don't know.
I don't know either.
Get out.
I think that might be a good idea.
Ted.
Thanks for the lift.
Yeah, no problem.
Is there something we can get you before you go?
No, no thanks Mrs. Nelson.
(laughs)
Okay, bye.
♫ 'Cause this our anthem
♫ Oh this is our anthem
♫ And this is our anthem
♫ Our anthem ♫
Goodbye, Ted.
♫ Do do do do do do do do do do do do dum dum ♫
(punching)
(groans)
Go near her again, and I'll kick your ass.
(seagulls cawing)
What's really goin' on, Katie?
How do you know you love someone?
Is this something you might want to experience with Chris?
Mom.
It's right for me to ask these questions.
This is important, if you're there, I mean.
If you think you might want to experience this with Chris
then it's right that I help you be responsible about it.
Everyone's having sex.
And that's what brought you to this conclusion?
Everyone's having sex and you should too?
What happened today? And who is Ted?
Ted's just some kid from school.
Chris and I got into a fight
and then Ted gave me a ride home.
What did you and Chris fight about?
He got pissed off 'cause he had to wait
for a couple of minutes.
Were you with Ted?
Is that why he was angry?
Mom! I was talking with Mr. Matthews.
He just got pissed off for no reason,
he had to wait for a couple of minutes, big deal.
That's what Mr. Matthews and I were talking about.
Wow.
Yeah, it makes you realize what a waste all this is.
A bit melodramatic.
You are very special Katie.
And I know that any decision you make will be the right one.
You're alright, mom.
You are too.
(sighs)
I'll make an appointment at the doctor for you.
You gonna go with me?
You want me to?
Sure.
My last day of the mission
before going home.
I'm struck by the way Doctor's Gift
has changed so many lives so quickly.
It takes such courage for these kids to come here.
To step out of their lives for something new.
I'll never forget one father,
who traveled from Jingxi,
a small town a few hours west of Shanghai,
who had arrived with his teenage daughter
after all the doctors and nurses had left the building.
While traveling to the mission,
they were in a horrible accident.
His arm was crushed, and his daughter,
who had waited years to have the surgery,
had to be turned away.
Who knows how different her life would have been.
If I ever had the ability to roll back the clock a little,
this would have been the time.
Hi dad.
Hey Kate. How was your day?
It was great!
Good.
Really? Could have fooled me.
Hi sweetie.
How is it that you two get to exchange pleasantries
while I get to deal with everyone's mood swing?
Wow.
Don't wow me.
What happened here today?
(laughs)
How was your day Steven, anything interesting happen?
And what time did you roll in last night?
Bridget, relax.
Oh don't tell me to relax,
I hate it when you tell me to relax!
Talk about this after dinner.
Let's just eat.
The silence is deafening.
Let's mix it up a little, shall we?
Oh come on, will you give it a rest?
Get a rest?
I'm here every day--
Do you guys have to do this in front of me?
That's nice.
Yeah my parents were fighting. My mom was pissed.
Hi dad.
Let me call you back later.
(sighs)
Your mom, uh...
She's pretty level-headed most of the time.
I screwed up last night, I should have called.
I know.
Hey dad, check that out.
What is it?
I think I should be doing something like this.
Doin' what?
Get involved.
It's hard to figure out.
What?
The same words can have more than one meaning?
I can be pro...
Pronounced.
It can be pronounced differently.
Never.
I wonder, what's it like out there?
We can go look.
No, I mean really out there.
I'm not sure I understand Sha Lin?
I don't know how to explain it exactly.
Nevermind.
(hums)
I think you should learn dance.
(laughs) No.
Yes.
It's fun!
Please?
Give it a try.
Come on.
Put your hands on my shoulder.
(hums)
Good, relax.
(laughter)
(singing in foreign language)
(laughing)
(squealing)
(grasshoppers chirping)
You know that Katie has asked for birth control?
How do you feel about that?
What do you mean how I feel--
Why are you always trying to pick a fight,
just say what you need to say.
Cut the psychology crap, Steven!
Alright, I'm out of control.
But you know how angry I get when you stay out
and don't call.
What happened last night, did you even think about us?
What part of I'm sorry don't you understand?
Can't you just talk to me?
Not when you're like this.
It was wrong that I didn't call,
but you knew where I was, you knew who I was with,
and after we have a couple drinks, you know?
Sometimes, we--
All act like fools!
Yeah!
Alright, yes, maybe sometimes we do, yes.
Has she started sleeping with Chris?
No. I don't...
I don't think so.
How do you feel about it?
Don't do that.
What is so strange about asking you how you feel?
It's all too familiar, Steven.
Every time I ask you about something sensitive,
you turn it back on me like I'm one of your patients.
I want you to talk to me!
But I'm not a teenage girl!
I've never been a teenage girl.
You know it's probably a good thing that she came to you.
She wouldn't come to me.
No.
No!
It's perfectly normal for a teenage girl
to come to her mother about birth control.
I mean who--
You told him?
What are you?
How could you? You are unbelievable.
What do you mean I'm unbelievable, he's your father!
I trusted you.
Okay, you are out of control.
You are being very unfair.
Oh, isn't that just like you.
You completely ratted me out,
and now I'm the one who's unfair!
It's not unfair!
Where are you going?
Don't look at me like that.
Like what?
How could you mom?
Hi Dr. Nelson.
Shut up Chris.
Hi Chris.
Shut up Steven.
Alright.
This has become a little uncomfortable.
Where are you guys going tonight?
Out.
What does that mean?
We're going out.
You're mother asked you where you're going.
We're going to the movies Mr. Nelson.
Thank you Chris.
Just don't be out too late, alright?
Thanks dad.
Can I have $30?
Have a good night.
Thanks dad.
What?
Stop!
Not now, I don't wanna do this in a car.
Why do you keep doin' this?
Just take me home.
You at least wanna go see what's goin' on
with everyone else?
What for?
So that you can tell everyone we parked?
Look, Katie.
I know we need to be responsible here,
but I've been patient, you know?
I've been respectful.
Yeah right,
like when you copped an attitude
when you had to wait outside of school
for me for a minute?
My mom made an appointment with the doctors for me.
You wanna go meet everyone else?
♫ The cowboy and the señorita
♫ Make the night much sweeter
♫ With words like I love you so
♫ He said life on the range
♫ Is such a lonely life
♫ Would you pack your shawl, a pile of clothes
♫ And be a cowboy's wife
♫ They married and their friends all carried
♫ Then the little cowboy and the bull would appear
♫ Why don't folks do like
♫ The cowboy and the señorita did
♫ He said don't send me back,
♫ Back to that lone prarie
♫ I've got a saddle for two, for me and for you
♫ Come ride away with me
♫ They headed
♫ Off to church and wedded ♫
(laughter)
Are there really cowboys in America?
I think so.
But this is an old movie.
It would be so fun to see a real cowboy,
and to ride a real horse.
Yeah.
This is fun, isn't it?
It's great to be out.
(wheels creak)
We met for the first time in that movie.
And they raised the many children.
Most of them were adopted.
How wonderful it would be. A big family.
You didn't answer me?
I will always love your mother.
("Vanishing Romance" by Carla Helmbrecht and Joel Evans)
Please? Can I go inside?
It's a short walk home, I'll be okay.
Please, dad.
How would I meet my cowboy?
Maybe for a while.
Are you gonna be alright?
Yeah, I'll be fine.
♫ That magic sparkle and that smile
♫ Our favorite song is out of style
♫ There's no use pretending
♫ It's the ending of our dance
♫ This is a vanishing romance
♫ Now there's just a dying ember
♫ Where there used to be a flame
♫ Oh, the kisses I remember
♫ No longer seem to taste the same
♫ I can't tell you how it breaks my heart
♫ To realize we've grown apart
♫ Time forbidden by
♫ Now we know we've lost our sense
♫ This is a vanishing romance
(foreign language)
(screaming)
(gong rings)
What are you writing?
I'm writing a letter to Doctor's Gift.
They will be in Shanghai very soon.
That's...
Good?
Are you okay?
Sha Lin...
what happened last night was not your fault.
Stop your busy work.
Sha Lin, I think we should talk about last night.
It's okay, you did nothing wrong.
Sha Lin! Sha Lin! Sha Lin!
(foreign language)
I just wanna stay here.
I can read, I can make your tea.
I'll write English.
Clean the house. I'm happy here.
I'm happy here.
Please, don't make me go.
I'll be so happy if you find your own life.
Please don't send the letter, please, don't!
Okay, okay! Okay! Okay.
You did nothing wrong.
Nothing happened!
I'm off to work, I'll be back later.
We can talk then.
Yes father.
(solemn music)
(machines working)
(foreign language)
(slow music)
♫ Spend some time with me ♫
(laughing)
How are you gettin' home?
Chris is gonna pick me up.
Hey! I like that song.
Yeah, it's pretty good.
Well put it back!
No, mom!
I'll be out in two seconds and you can put on
whatever you want.
Ugh, Katie. Katie.
Mom!
Listen are you okay with everything today?
Yeah.
Alright, well don't screw around with anything.
Take the pill every morning.
I was there too.
It also helps keep your skin clear.
(laughs)
Katie don't be afraid to come to me with anything, okay?
We've always been able to say anything to each other.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, I know what you mean mom.
Kay, I'm glad.
Me too.
Don't patronize me.
I'm not.
I'm not. You've always been pretty cool.
♫ Where they at? West coast!
♫ Where they at? East coast!
♫ Lookin' good Louis!
♫ Run playa, run playa, run playa, run ♫
Alright, later mom.
Later.
What?
What what?
You're looking at me like aw,
my little girl's so grown up now.
Uh, can I change the music back?
Sure.
Good morning everybody!
Saturday morning, so good to see you,
I can't believe you made it in here,
thank you so much,
I can't tell you how much it means to me.
'Course this wouldn't have anything to do
with the fact that you have community service hours
you need to graduate?
There you are! Take that Kate.
Ted, one for you. New shampoo?
Here. Take that.
Go ahead and fill out the applications.
And for the boys who might not understand the questions,
take all the extra time you need.
Maybe even ask one of the girls,
they know how to help.
Look, they'll let anyone in.
Must need a lot of help.
Hey! What was that?
Doctor's Gift does need a lot of help, everybody, alright?
They need help training, fundraising,
mission coordinating, and for a very lucky few,
Oh! Barbera, (whistles) Barbera, hi.
For the lucky few who get to go on the trip,
it is a life altering experience, I promise you that.
Alright, maybe I've over stated it,
but it can be quite an adventure.
Ted?
Mr. Matthews, how many hours do we get for this?
One hour Ted. One hour only.
So please put your student ID numbers on the applications
and that why it might jog my failing memory,
and maybe you'll get the credit you so rightfully deserve.
Ted, another question?
Uh, Mr. Matthews, can I borrow a pencil?
Aw, everybody, Ted forgot his pencil.
(laughter)
A plethora of pencils for Ted!
(laughing)
Thank you.
Alright guys that's it.
Don't forget to turn in your applications.
Are there other requirements besides just showing up?
What do you mean?
Well, do you have to pass any kind of test?
Or do you have to be presentable,
have certain qualities?
You're gonna be great.
Not me.
Well why are you asking?
Ted.
I mean, would someone like him be allowed to go
and represent Doctor's Gift?
You mean like on a mission?
Yeah, like on a mission.
Don't always be so quick to judge.
Ted's a pretty interesting guy.
He's got three honors classes,
carries a 4.0.
He's done over 300 hours of community service,
of all the students in class today
he's probably the only one who didn't need the hours
to graduate.
I really didn't know.
Well now you do.
Anyway, uhm...
I'm not sure if this is something that I can do.
That's alright.
You don't lose any points for changing your mind.
I wanna show you something.
Remember this story I told you
about the Chinese girl and her dad?
Didn't make it to Shanghai in time for her operation?
Yeah.
This is her file.
I'd like to get your reaction on it.
If you decide to go forward you can write your essay on it.
Okay. Thanks Mr. Matthews.
(piano music)
Are you sure no one's home?
You're unbelievable.
You think so?
I think we should wait.
What?
I can't believe you're doin' this.
I'm not doing anything.
I need to go home.
(tires screeching)
Katie?
Hey.
You okay?
I don't think I'm ready.
Well you don't have to do this pumpkin head.
That's not what I'm talking about mom.
I'm going to China.
Oh.
Oh, was it Chris?
I just didn't want to.
Was Chris too aggressive?
No. Just more like he didn't know what to do.
After the initial shock he was really pretty understanding.
That's good.
What? Why do you always sneak up on us.
I didn't sneak up on you, I was parking the car!
Knock it off.
Next please!
Hi, how many traveling?
Just one.
Ticket and passport, please.
Okay, Katherine,
anyone unpack your bags
or give you anything to take on the plane?
My mom.
This your mom?
Wow, look like a sister.
So mom, before I call security,
you get anything from anybody to take on the plane?
No.
No American candy, no play station?
No, nothing.
No gummy bear, beanie baby?
What's those nice boots called, a Ugg?
No, no.
No, okay. Come on, who died?
(laughter)
Okay, Katherine.
Flight 832, through security gate 123 on your left.
And sounds like you're getting on just in time.
Boy, travel sure isn't what it used to be.
Yeah, passengers not the same either.
Take care, have nice trip. Next please.
Katie!
I don't know why she had
to be such a smart ass.
Why didn't you just try to be friendly?
Katie!
I'm sorry.
It's okay Chris, you were great.
Hey Chris.
I love you.
Bye bye sweetie.
You got everything?
Write to me.
Okay.
Bye sweetie!
Bye honey!
I have been such a jerk.
Some days are harder than others.
Pumpkin head,
your mother and I have spent the past 17 years
watching you grow into the fine,
compassionate young woman that you are.
Wherever you go, no doubt, you'll light up the world.
Love, mom and dad.
(dizi music)
Hi! I am here!
This way, this way!
Come on, this way!
Hey, here, here.
Hi, I'm Calvin.
Hi, I'm Katie.
Nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you too.
And you are, Sir Swore?
Ted.
Oh, Ted! Much better.
Sweet name, nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you too.
Okay, please this way.
Okay guys, this way.
Welcome to Shanghai, yay!
(cheering)
One more time.
Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls,
brother and sister, welcome to Shanghai!
(cheering)
Doctor, nurses, volunteers and students,
welcome to here in China.
I have a question, hey pretty girl.
Are you a doctor? Doctor?
Am I a doctor? No, I'm a registered nurse.
How about you?
Yeah.
Okay, we'll be travelling by bus for about one hour
to hotel, and the hotel, oh!
Traffic in China is always heavy.
How heavy is it?
Yeah, so heavy.
And the hotel is not too far from the hospital.
The dinner will be served shortly
and after our raffle.
And you want lots of supplies of ready passengers.
Welcome to, thank you for coming, and enjoy the ride!
(clapping)
Where you from?
L.A.
Hi L.A., I'm Linda from Salt Lake.
Hi Linda from Salt Lake.
I'm Katie and this is Ted.
Hi Ted, hi Katie.
I saw you guys on the plane,
I thought you might be one of us.
One of you.
Hey how about the MC, what a hoot, huh?
I think he said the first lady was at the hospital.
I'm not sure but if she is, I hope she's alright.
I'll see you guys there, okay?
Alright. See ya.
(dizi music)
Do you guys know any movie stars?
Hey Katie, you know we can room together if you want.
This is my third mission for Doctor's Gift,
and each time I go I meet the most interesting people,
and we have so much fun at night,
sometimes we have a little too much fun,
but let's keep that on the DL okay?
I take a lot of pictures, too.
Hey let's take a picture right now!
Katie, Ted, get over there, let's take a picture right now!
Go ahead Calvin, go ahead!
Alright but you have to say, you know, hey!
Hey let's get everybody in, everybody get in!
Behind there.
Okay you guys this is Katie and Ted,
they're from L.A., and then Calvin's from China.
Okay, what are you gonna say?
(shouting)
Alright I think the fun has officially started!
You got it?
Is this it?
What do you mean?
I mean, is this it?
What, it's not so bad.
You know whenever I take a trip,
I always look at everything as an adventure,
that way I'm never disappointed.
Wow.
Oh, do you want this bed? What bed you want?
Do you mind if I take that one?
Because at home I always sleep facing west,
and since we're in China,
I should probably face east.
Luckily I brought a compass.
Let me know if you want any soup.
Oh you have a computer?
I'm always on my computer at home.
You ever wonder how we got along without computers
and...
And cellphones, and...
What are you looking for?
I wanted to send some emails.
Ugh, there's nowhere to plug this thing in.
(shutter click)
Great shot!
Linda, I'm sorry can you please put that thing away.
It was a great shot.
Hey Ted!
Hi.
Hey, how's it goin'?
Good, you?
Good!
Katie, can I help you?
Yeah, that'd be nice.
You know what, you're a take charge kinda guy there Ted,
I can tell already.
Just trying to help.
Coming guys! Coming to dinner?
Oh I'm definitely in.
It's gonna be good tonight.
Why, what are we having?
I dunno. The first meal always good.
The first smell's always good?
Uh huh!
You mean the first meals always good?
Uh, yeah! Meal.
Is that what you meant to say?
You know what, I can't make out what you're saying.
But, I am starved, so I'm definitely in.
Could you guys please take your party somewhere else?
Come on you guys, let's go.
Let's go.
You know it must be hard doin' something
that's not all about you.
What am I doing here?
Good, you guys are here.
Katie, you will be working in the receiving room,
upstairs, down the hall, okay?
Here is a list of the procedures
on the schedule for this morning.
Ted, you'll be moving patients to their rooms for prep.
Wait, where you going grasshopper?
As well as working with the kitchen staff
when lunch is served.
Yes we're gonna have cabbage again, I don't wanna hear it.
Now each patient has a number that corresponds
with the number on the schedule,
so just be aware of that
and try and make sure everything flows.
And make sure that each patient
has a bloody type armband on their wrist
as they're wheeled into the operating room, okay?
You guys, do me a favor, try to keep a smile on.
These kids are really scared, alright?
Excuse me, how about me?
How about you?
You're so cute I'm gonna scream, come with me.
Hi.
Hi I'm Katie.
You wanna draw a picture?
(coughing)
(calm piano music)
Minh, Hi.
Can I see your hand?
Fun Kai Fun?
Fun Kai Fun.
Ni Hao?
Ni hao.
Ja ming?
(mumbles)
Okay, number 003, Minh?
Where's my Minh?
Katie can I have Minh's chart?
Katie?
Are you okay sweetheart?
I can't do this.
It's different when you see them close up.
Hold on a minute.
Here's what we're gonna do.
Okay we're gonna take the pictures in here,
and you're gonna do it.
Watch.
Hi! Come here.
Stand right over here. Good boy.
(gasps)
(shutter click)
Thank you so much!
Hi, excuse me? Hi pretty girl!
Oh, I was gonna wear my hair like that today.
It's a good thing I didn't.
Okay, turn around.
Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful!
Here you go. Excuse me, excuse me mister.
Guess what?
You have to come with me because I'm bigger than you.
Here we go, turn around.
Here. Go ahead.
Ready?
Very good! I think you can handle it from here.
Katie!
Ni hao?
Ni hao!
Hello!
Today changed my life.
Please tell Mr. Matthews he was right.
I love you mom, tell dad I love him too.
And I really love the picture.
Hey.
Oh my gosh, I am so tired.
Ugh.
You were good today.
Thanks.
You're pretty cool.
I'm sorry, didn't hear that?
You were very cool.
Thanks.
Who are you writing to?
I just wrote an email to my parents,
and I think I'm gonna write one to the teacher
who talked me into coming here.
Who's that?
Mr. Matthews.
Michael Matthews?
Yeah, you know him?
Yeah, we work together in China.
He's a really really good guy.
God I remember one day I was on my way to the airport,
and he grabbed me to help him bandage this guys arm
who was just hit by a bus, it was horrible.
Did you get to meet them?
Meet who?
Lin, did you get to meet him?
I remember he was with a young girl.
No, you know what I didn't see her face.
I mean it coulda been her, but...
I don't know.
I just remember that her father's arm
was really badly broken, though.
I'm so tired honey, could you get the lights?
Okay, good night.
Good night.
Good morning, miss.
Good morning.
Can you tell me where this is?
Jingxi is very far.
How far? Can you tell me how to get there?
Yes miss, but, the distance is great,
and the bus we rent earlier this morning for your group
is going to the Culture Center in south part of Shanghai.
Okay, I just wanna know where it is.
Someone I know lives there.
Here miss, the route is only by bus or car.
Then you travel by train
and then depending on time or date,
there's a bus to the area you're seeking.
Which bus goes to the train?
The bus is just outside Shanghai.
It's marked Three station,
and arrives at Ming terminal.
All trains pass through Ming terminal.
Can I take this?
Yes miss.
Thank you.
Thank you miss.
(suspenseful music)
(foreign language)
English? You know English?
Yeah, tickets please.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
(train brakes squeaking)
(chatter)
Hey listen,
why don't you guys go on ahead to the Cultural Center.
We'll find her.
Yeah, yeah we'll find her.
Then we'll meet you there, how's that?
Okay? Alright go ahead.
Sure?
Yeah, I'm positive, we'll see you there.
Hey Linda.
Why don't you talk to the desk clerk over there?
The desk gal?
Yeah.
The desk clerk?
Desk clerk.
Calvin that is a very good idea.
Yeah, I have lot of good ideas.
I have a lot of good ideas.
No I got it the first time.
Let's go.
(bell dinging rapidly)
Can I help you miss?
Yes, did you send that little girl off by herself?
I only showed her information, miss.
And she went back upstairs after--
(mumbles)
Boy I sure hope so.
(somber music)
Who are you?
I saw you today outside the station.
Why are you watching my daughter?
Were you in a bus accident?
How do you know this?
Why are you here?
I don't know.
I look back on the decisions I've made,
and how different my life would be.
Hard decisions affect the people you love the most.
I still don't see why she wouldn't want to come.
My roommate's the one who bandaged your arm.
Really?
Hello?
(knocking)
Lin, I know you're in there.
(foreign language)
Lin, I know you speak English.
Please Lin, I've come a long way.
I just want to meet you.
What do you want here?
My father is not home, please leave me alone.
Your father has told me so much about you.
You talked to my father?
Yeah, we had tea together just a few minutes ago.
He wanted me to talk to you alone.
Are you from the medical mission in Shanghai?
Yeah.
Are you a doctor?
No Lin, I'm a high school student from California.
I'll make you some tea then.
We don't know exactly, Mrs. Nelson,
all we know is she requested directions
to a different town.
Alright, then someone has to find her.
How do you let a 17 year old girl strike out on her own?
I know, I know, don't worry, we'll find her.
Listen, do you have...
Do you have any idea why she would have taken--
This means wait.
Do you have any idea why she would have taken
a particular interest in this girl?
They were born on the same day.
Really?
Tell her you'll call back.
One second, what?
Tell her you'll call her back.
Mrs. Nelson, uh, can I call you right back?
Please.
Yes I promise.
Call me back, please.
Okay we'll call you back. Okay bye.
What do you have, what is it?
What what what?
I see that!
What are you looking for?
Yeah, what are you looking for?
(laughs)
This girl fascinated Katie.
I could never understand.
She went to go find her.
Look, here it is.
When I first decided to get involved with Doctor's Gift,
I didn't know what to expect.
I guess I was just trying to figure out
what life is like in the real world.
Of course my boyfriend thought I was nuts.
You have a boyfriend?
Yeah, we been together about two years.
What's it like to be together?
What do you mean?
To have a boyfriend?
It's okay. Sometimes it's hard.
Everyone thinks that when you have a boyfriend
it's all good but it's not.
Your father told me you like to read a lot.
I like to read. I like to read about America.
I saw a movie once.
What movie?
A Roy Rogers movie.
I don't think I've seen that one.
Can I tell you something?
I like to listen to you talk.
Listen when I first saw your picture--
Lin!
Lin did I say something wrong?
Did I say something?
Please leave.
I will, let me finish.
When I first saw your picture,
and then I saw we had the same birthday,
I thought for the first time that maybe there was more
to life than boyfriends or shopping,
or lying in the sun on the beach.
And then yesterday when those kids came in for surgery,
I fell apart.
I completely fell apart because it's different
when you look at a photograph of someone,
and then you see them for real.
I wanted to know that I could care.
I've never felt the sun on my face.
Let's go find it then.
Sha Lin.
Please?
Let's go to Shanghai.
Where is he?
I don't know.
Get on, I'll go find him.
Oh no no, we're both getting on.
I can't handle another irate parent.
Okay.
Just like a old cowboy movie!
Have some more.
Eat, please.
Do you think she'd let me see her face?
Sometimes.
When we're reading she takes it off.
She changes so much.
She's very different.
What are you talking about?
You.
What about me?
You're father's watching his little girl grow up.
What do you mean?
We're teenagers.
Teenagers?
Yeah, I can see it.
You can sleep here, there's room.
Oh, I can just sleep--
No no no.
You'll have much better sleep without hearing...
(foreign language)
Snoring.
(laughter)
My snoring.
(somber music)
Are you okay Katie?
Well, no one knows where I am.
I left the hotel without telling anyone
where I was going.
I've been dreaming of foreign land.
Really.
Is he handsome?
Who?
Your boyfriend, is he handsome?
Maybe a little.
Does he have a white hat?
I don't know if he has a white hat.
Goodnight girls.
Goodnight father.
Goodnight.
Little lost, teddy bear?
Katie!
Oh my gosh! Are you crazy?
Are you okay?
Oh my gosh.
I'm sorry Linda.
How's your hand?
It's fine now, thank you.
It's great to see you again.
Yeah!
You were wrong, he's very handsome.
Hey Ted.
You have a white hat?
(laughs)
(calm music)
We're in.
Okay campers, you can celebrate later, we're off to prep.
Now I hope you're not too squeamish
or have some rare blood type or anything.
If you need blood I can help.
Me too.
Okay come on bring the love this way, come on.
(whimpers)
She wants you.
Lin, you really need to get back into bed.
You scared?
A little.
I'm scared too.
("Narrow Daylight" by Diana Krall)
♫ Narrow daylight
♫ Under my room
♫ Shining hours were brief
♫ Winter is over, summer is near
♫ Are we stronger than we believe? ♫
Blood pressure is stable, pulse is stable
She'll be out in about 20 seconds.
♫ As the camera clings to the common thread
♫ Beyond all vanity
♫ Into a gaze to shoot you through
♫ Is the kindness we count on
♫ Hidden in everyone?
♫ I stepped out in a sunlit grove
♫ Although deep down I wished it would rain
♫ Washing away all the sadness and tears
♫ That will never fall so heavily again ♫
Oh no you don't.
Come here, I want to show you something.
♫ Is the kindness we count on
♫ Hidden in everyone?
♫ I stood there in the salt spray air
♫ Felt the wind sweeping over my face
♫ I ran up through the rocks
♫ To the old wooden cross
♫ It's a place where I can find some peace
♫ Narrow daylight
♫ Entered in my room
♫ Shining hours were brief
♫ Winter is over, summer is near
♫ Are we stronger than we believe ♫
(soothing music)